.Dd March 14, 2019
.Dt YTOOLS 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ytools
.Nd tools to interact with YouTube
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
enables you to browse YouTube without leaving the terminal. The
goal is not to cover everything you can do via the web interface.
Instead the purpose of
.Nm
is to eliminate the need for the browser in the
most common use cases.
.Pp
.Nm
consists of these tools:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 16n -compact
.It ytools-search
search for videos
.It ytools-pick
print the URL of a video
.It ytools-info
display further info, like views, likes and description
.It ytools-recommend
recommend similar videos to the selected one
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
ytools-search takes one or more search terms as arguments.
.Pp
ytools-pick, ytools-info and ytools-recommend take either no argument or
a video number. The video number refers to the numbers displayed in the
last ytools-search or ytools-recommend call. If no argument is given,
the last video picked with ytools-pick is assumed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Search for a video:
.Dl ytools-search Vitalc - Fade Away
.Pp
View some info about the second result:
.Dl ytools-info 2
.Pp
Play the audio of it:
.Bd -offset indent -compact
mpv --ytdl-format
.Qq bestaudio/best
--no-video
.Qq $(ytools-pick 2)
.Ed
.Pp
View some recommendations for this video; note that the recommendations
are for the last video picked with ytools-pick, since no video number is given
as argument:
.Dl ytools-recommend
.Pp
The
.Nm
are designed to be used in scripts and require no interaction. You
could for example write a simple script, that searches for passed
search terms, interactively asks for the selection of a search
result and then plays it using
.Xr mpv 1 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr youtube-dl 1
.Xr mpv 1
